{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Overview: \
End-product inhibition is a fundamental concept in metabolic pathways where the final product of the reaction inhibits the steps prior to it. The biosynthesis of L-isoleucine from L-threonine involves a chain of chemical reactions that is a good example of this. Each enzymatic step in this process is represented by the reversible Michaelis Menten equation. L04 used this scheme and the Lotka-Volterra model to show how Isoleucine inhibits the other steps in the biosynthesis process. We aimed to expand on this by adding Valine into the model. A literature review lead to the conclusion that Valine plays a regulatory role in inhibiting the products. Two different functions, step and sigmoid, were compared in order to learn more about Valine\'92s effect on this process. This comparison showed contrasting effects between the step and sigmoid functions. The step function showed infinite cooperativity while the sigmoid function showed no cooperativity. These results shed light on Valines regulatory role of isoleucine in the biosynthetic pathway and highlights the importance of computational modeling.  \
\
Notebook walks through model development and contains plots depicting model predictions.}